The way in which the antithesis is constituted in this
ethical realm is such that self-consciousness has not yet received
its due as a particular individuality. There it has the value, on
the one hand, merely of the universal will, and on the other,
of consanguinity. This particular individual counts only as a
shadowy unreality. As yet, no deed has been committed; but
the deed is the actual self. It disturbs the peaceful organization
and movement of the ethIcal world. What there appears as
order and harmony of its two essences, each of which authenti·
cates and completes the other, becomes through the deed a
transition of opposites in which each proves itself to be the nonreali ty, rather than the au then tication, of itself and the other.
It becomes the negative movement, or the eternal necessity, of
a dreadful fate which engulfs in the abyss of its single nature
divine and human law alike, as well as the two self-consciousnesses in which these powers have their existence-and
for us passes over into the absolute being-for-self of the purely
individual self.,.consciousness.
465. The ground from which this movement starts and on
which it takes place, is the ethical realm; what is active in this
movement, however, is self-consciousness. Qy.a ethical consciousness, it is the simple, pure direction of activity towards
the essentiality of ethical life, i.e. duty. In it there is no caprice
and equally no struggle, no indecision, since the making and
testing of law has been given up; on the contrary, the essence
of ethical life is for this consciousness immediate, unwavering,
without contradictiop. Oonsequently, we are not faced with the
sorry spectacle of a collision between passion and duty, nor with
the comic spectacle of a collision between duty and duty-a
collision which, as regards its content, is the same as that
between passion and duty; for passion is equally capable of
being seen as a duty, because when consciousness separates itself
from its immediate) substantial essence and withdraws into
itself, it becomes the merely formal universal into which one
content as wen as another fits equally well-as we found before.
But the conision of duties is comic because it expresses a contradiction, viz. the contradiction of an Absolute that is opposed
to itse1f: